doc: Added serial recovery documentation (#1468)
mcu-tools/mcuboot: docs/serial_recovery.md

<!--
  - SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0

  - Copyright (c) 2022 Nordic Semiconductor ASA

  - Original license:

  - Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
  - or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
  - distributed with this work for additional information
  - regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
  - to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
  - "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
  - with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

  -  http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

  - Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
  - software distributed under the License is distributed on an
  - "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
  - KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
  - specific language governing permissions and limitations
  - under the License.
-->

# Serial Recovery

Mcuboot implements a Simple Management Protocol (SMP) server. SMP is a basic transfer encoding for use with the MCUmgr management protocol.

> For more information about MCUmgr and SMP. Please refer [the zephyr-rtos device managemnt documentation](https://docs.zephyrproject.org/latest/services/device_mgmt/index.html#device-mgmt) for detail of these components.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information about MCUmgr and SMP. Please refer to [the zephyr-rtos device management documentation](https://docs.zephyrproject.org/latest/services/device_mgmt/index.html#device-mgmt) for detail of these components.
```

MCUboot supports only a subset of the MCUmgr commands:

> * echo
> * reset
> * image list
> * image upload

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* echo (OS group)
* reset (OS group)
* image list (IMG group)
* image upload (IMG group)
```

> It also might support system specific mcumgr commands which depends on given mcuboot-port.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It also might support system specific MCUmgr commands which depends on given mcuboot-port.
```

> It also might support system specific mcumgr commands which depends on given mcuboot-port.
> This extensioin is supposed to be enabled by ``MCUBOOT_PERUSER_MGMT_GROUP_ENABLED`` option.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

It also might support system specific MCUmgr commands which depends on the given mcuboot-port.
This extension can enabled by ``MCUBOOT_PERUSER_MGMT_GROUP_ENABLED`` option. ???
```
Marked the second line with ??? as this Kconfig does not exist, and the one in the previous file does not enable the commands themselves, it allows enabling the commands (which are opt-in not opt-out)

Author: right this is just mcuboot option which might be covered under zephyr-port Kconfig option.

> This extensioin is supposed to be enabled by ``MCUBOOT_PERUSER_MGMT_GROUP_ENABLED`` option.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This extension is supposed to be enabled by ``MCUBOOT_PERUSER_MGMT_GROUP_ENABLED`` option.
```

Serial recovery feature might use any serial interface provided by the platform.

> ##upload command details
> Upload of the image is targeted to the primary slot by default.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Upload command details

Upload of the image is targeted to the primary slot by default.
```

Reviewer: Seems unfixed

It is possible to load image to other slots if ``MCUBOOT_SERIAL_DIRECT_IMAGE_UPLOAD`` option is enabled for the platform.

> MCUboots supports progressive erase of slot to which the image is downloaded if ``MCUBOOT_ERASE_PROGRESSIVELY`` option is enabled.

Reviewer: *BOOT_ERASE_PROGRESSIVELY

Author: I mena mcuboot option, not a kconfig property

Thanks to that device can receive image smoothly and erase automatically only required part of the flash.

## Configuration of the serial recovery

A way to enable and configure the serial recovery feature depends on given mcuboot-port implementation.

> Refer respective documentation and source code for more details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Refer to the respective documentation and source code for more details.
```

## Entering to the serial recovery mode

Entering to the serial recovery mode is usually possible right after device reset, for instance as reaction on a GPIO pin state.
Refer to given mcuboot-port details for get info on possibilities for enter the mode.

## Usage of the serial recovery

> In order to use the mode, need to swich the device to it and use a SMP client application for communication with the MCUboot's SMP server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to use the mode, the device needs to enter serial recovery mode and use an SMP client application for communication with the MCUboot's SMP server can then be used.
```

> For evaluation the MCUmgr command line tool can be used as SMP client.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For evaluation the MCUmgr command line tool can be used as an SMP client.
```

The tool is available under https://github.com/apache/mynewt-mcumgr-cli.
It is well documented in [the zephyr-rtos mcumgr-cli documentation](https://docs.zephyrproject.org/latest/services/device_mgmt/mcumgr.html#mcumgr-cli)

To install the tool following command line can be used:
``` console
`go install github.com/apache/mynewt-mcumgr-cli/mcumgr@latest`
```

Example of usage:
setting the connection configuration:
``` console
mcumgr conn add serial_1 type="serial" connstring="dev=/dev/ttyACM0,baud=115200"
```

> Subsequent command examples are using estabilishied connection configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Subsequent command examples are using established connection configuration.
```

upload the image:
``` console
sudo mcumgr image upload <path-to-signed-image-bin-file> -c serial_1
```

> The image will be uploaded to the device, at the end the command done should be reported:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The image will be uploaded to the device, at the end the response done should be reported:
```

See the Zephyr [Device Management](https://docs.zephyrproject.org/latest/services/device_mgmt/index.html#device-mgmt) documentation for more information about MCUmgr and SMP.

MCUboot supports the following subset of the MCUmgr commands:
* echo (OS group)
* reset (OS group)
* image list (IMG group)
* image upload (IMG group)

It can also support system-specific MCUmgr commands depending on the given mcuboot-port
if the ``MCUBOOT_PERUSER_MGMT_GROUP_ENABLED`` option is enabled.

The serial recovery feature can use any serial interface provided by a platform.

## Image uploading

Uploading an image is targeted to the primary slot by default.

An image can be loaded to other slots only when ``MCUBOOT_SERIAL_DIRECT_IMAGE_UPLOAD`` option is enabled for the platform.

MCUboot supports progressive erasing of a slot to which an image is downloaded if ``MCUBOOT_ERASE_PROGRESSIVELY`` option is enabled.
As a result, a device can receive image smoothly, and can erase required part of a flash automatically.

## Configuration of the serial recovery

A way to enable and configure the serial recovery feature depends on the given mcuboot-port implementation.

> Refer to the respective documentation and source code for more details.

Author: I Can refer zephyr-redme.md here - for other OS-ports this is not documented a all.

## Entering to the serial recovery mode

> Entering to the serial recovery mode is usually possible right after a device reset, for instance as a reaction on a GPIO pin state.

Author: This is one of modes user can choice, in the future we even expect trigering this mode by the application itself.

> Refer to the given mcuboot-port details to get info on possibilities for entering the mode.

Author: Similar as above.

MCUboot supports the following subset of the MCUmgr commands:
* echo (OS group)
* reset (OS group)
* image list (IMG group)
* image upload (IMG group)

It can also support system-specific MCUmgr commands depending on the given mcuboot-port
if the ``MCUBOOT_PERUSER_MGMT_GROUP_ENABLED`` option is enabled.

The serial recovery feature can use any serial interface provided by a platform.

## Image uploading

Uploading an image is targeted to the primary slot by default.

An image can be loaded to other slots only when ``MCUBOOT_SERIAL_DIRECT_IMAGE_UPLOAD`` option is enabled for the platform.

MCUboot supports progressive erasing of a slot to which an image is downloaded if ``MCUBOOT_ERASE_PROGRESSIVELY`` option is enabled.
As a result, a device can receive image smoothly, and can erase required part of a flash automatically.

## Configuration of the serial recovery

A way to enable and configure the serial recovery feature depends on the given mcuboot-port implementation.
Refer to the respective documentation and source code for more details.

> ## Entering to the serial recovery mode

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Entering serial recovery mode
```

Entering the serial recovery mode is usually possible right after a device reset, for instance as a reaction on a GPIO pin state.

> Refer to the given mcuboot-port details to get info on possibilities for entering the mode.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Refer to the given mcuboot-port details to get information on how to enter the serial recovery mode.
```

## Usage of the serial recovery

### MCU Manager CLI installation

The MCUmgr command line tool can be used as an SMP client for evaluation purposes.
The tool is available under the [MCU Manager](https://github.com/apache/mynewt-mcumgr-cli)
Github page and is described in the Zephyr 
[MCU Manager CLI](https://docs.zephyrproject.org/latest/services/device_mgmt/mcumgr.html#mcumgr-cli) documentation.

Use the following command to install the MCU Manager CLI tool:
``` console
go install github.com/apache/mynewt-mcumgr-cli/mcumgr@latest
```
Swich the device to the serial recovery mode and use an SMP client application for communication with the MCUboot's SMP server.

### Connection configuration

Use the following command to set the connection configuration:
``` console

> mcumgr conn add serial_1 type="serial" connstring="dev=/dev/ttyACM0,baud=115200"

Reviewer: No instructions for windows users - are they needed?

<!--
  - SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0

  - Copyright (c) 2022 Nordic Semiconductor ASA

  - Original license:

  - Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
  - or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
  - distributed with this work for additional information
  - regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
  - to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
  - "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
  - with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

  -  http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

  - Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
  - software distributed under the License is distributed on an
  - "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
  - KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
  - specific language governing permissions and limitations
  - under the License.
-->

# Serial Recovery

Mcuboot implements a Simple Management Protocol (SMP) server. SMP is a basic transfer encoding for use with the MCUmgr management protocol.

> For more information about MCUmgr and SMP. Please refer [the zephyr-rtos device managemnt documenation](https://docs.zephyrproject.org/latest/services/device_mgmt/index.html#device-mgmt) for detail of these components.

Reviewer 2: typo: documenation -> documentation

Reviewer 2: typo: managemnt -> management

> Limited subset of MCUmgr comands are suported:

Reviewer 2: typo: comands -> commands

Reviewer 2: Suggestion: "MCUboot supports only a subset of the MCUmgr commands:"

- image list

> - image upload

Reviewer 2: Maybe also mention that it only uploads to the primary slot?

...

> Serial recovery feature might use any serial interface provided by the platform.

Reviewer 2: It would be useful to point out that the DTS needs to have a `zephyr,uart-mcumgr` entry.

Reviewer 2: > It would be useful to point out that the DTS needs to have a zephyr,uart-mcumgr entry.

Well, for Zephyr, that is!

# Serial Recovery

> MCUboot implements a Simple Management Protocol (SMP) server. SMP is a basic transfer encoding for use with the mcumgr management protocol.

Reviewer: This seems to revert changes in the previous commit
